PublicDashboards: Create initial API docs (#74424)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/developers/http_api/dashboard_public.md

## Create a public dashboard

`POST /api/dashboards/uid/:uid/public-dashboards/`

Creates a new public dashboard

**Required permissions**

See note in the [introduction]({{< ref "#public-dashboard-api" >}}) for an explanation.

| Action                    | Scope                            |
| ------------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| `dashboards.public:write` | `dashboards:uid:<dashboard UID>` |

**Example Request for new public dashboard**:

```http
POST /api/dashboards/uid/xCpsVuc4z/public-dashboards/ HTTP/1.1
Accept: application/json
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer eyJrIjoiT0tTcG1pUlY2RnVKZTFVaDFsNFZXdE9ZWmNrMkZYbk

{
    "uid": "cd56d9fd-f3d4-486d-afba-a21760e2acbe",
    "accessToken": "5c948bf96e6a4b13bd91975f9a2028b7",
    "timeSelectionEnabled": false,
    "isEnabled": true,
    "annotationsEnabled": false,
    "share": "public"
}
```

JSON Body schema:

> - **uid** – Optional. Unique identifier when creating a public dashboard. If it is null it will generate a new uid.
> - **accessToken** – Optional. Unique access token. If it is null it will generate a new access token.
> - **timeSelectionEnabled** – Optional. Enable the time picker in the public dashboard. Default value is false.
> - **isEnabled** – Optional. Enable the public dashboard. Default value is false.
> - **annotationsEnabled** – Optional. Show annotations. Default value is false.
> - **share** – Optional. Share mode. Default value is public.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **uid** – Optional. Unique identifier when creating a public dashboard. If it's null, it will generate a new uid.
- **accessToken** – Optional. Unique access token. If it's null, it will generate a new access token.
- **timeSelectionEnabled** – Optional. Set to `true` to enable the time picker in the public dashboard. The default value is `false`.
- **isEnabled** – Optional. Set to `true` to enable the public dashboard. The default value is `false`.
- **annotationsEnabled** – Optional. Set to `true` to show annotations. The default value is `false`.
- **share** – Optional. Set the share mode. The default value is `public`.
```

**Example Response**:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json; charset=UTF-8
Content-Length: 78

{
    "uid": "cd56d9fd-f3d4-486d-afba-a21760e2acbe",
    "dashboardUid": "xCpsVuc4z",
    "accessToken": "5c948bf96e6a4b13bd91975f9a2028b7",
    "createdBy": 1,
    "updatedBy": 1,
    "createdAt": "2023-09-05T15:48:21-03:00",
    "updatedAt": "2023-09-05T15:48:21-03:00",
    "timeSelectionEnabled": false,
    "isEnabled": false,
    "annotationsEnabled": false,
    "share": "public"
}
```

Status Codes:

- **200** – Created

> - **400** – Errors (invalid json, missing or invalid fields, dashboard is public, etc)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **400** – Errors (such as invalid json, missing or invalid fields, or dashboard is public)
```

- **401** – Unauthorized
- **403** – Access denied
- **404** – Dashboard not found

The error response body will have the following properties:

```http
HTTP/1.1 400 Bad request
Content-Type: application/json; charset=UTF-8
Content-Length: 107

{
    "statusCode": 400,
    "messageId": "publicdashboards.dashboardIsPublic",
    "message": "Dashboard is already public"
}
```

## Update a public dashboard

`PATCH /api/dashboards/uid/:uid/public-dashboards/`

**Required permissions**

See note in the [introduction]({{< ref "#public-dashboard-api" >}}) for an explanation.

| Action                    | Scope                            |
| ------------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| `dashboards.public:write` | `dashboards:uid:<dashboard UID>` |

**Example Request for updating a public dashboard**:

```http
PATCH /api/dashboards/uid/xCpsVuc4z/public-dashboards/ HTTP/1.1
Accept: application/json
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer eyJrIjoiT0tTcG1pUlY2RnVKZTFVaDFsNFZXdE9ZWmNrMkZYbk

{
    "timeSelectionEnabled": false,
    "isEnabled": true,
    "annotationsEnabled": false,
    "share": "public"
}
```

JSON Body schema:

> - **timeSelectionEnabled** – Optional. Enable the time picker in the public dashboard. Default value is false.
> - **isEnabled** – Optional. Enable the public dashboard. Default value is false.
> - **annotationsEnabled** – Optional. Show annotations. Default value is false.
> - **share** – Optional. Share mode. Default value is public.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **timeSelectionEnabled** – Optional. Set to `true` to enable the time picker in the public dashboard. The default value is `false`.
- **isEnabled** – Optional. Set to `true` to enable the public dashboard. The default value is `false`.
- **annotationsEnabled** – Optional. Set to `true` to show annotations. The default value is `false`.
- **share** – Optional. Set the share mode. The default value is `public`.
```

**Example Response**:

```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json; charset=UTF-8
Content-Length: 78

{
    "uid": "cd56d9fd-f3d4-486d-afba-a21760e2acbe",
    "dashboardUid": "xCpsVuc4z",
    "accessToken": "5c948bf96e6a4b13bd91975f9a2028b7",
    "createdBy": 1,
    "updatedBy": 1,
    "createdAt": "2023-09-05T15:48:21-03:00",
    "updatedAt": "2023-09-05T15:48:21-03:00",
    "timeSelectionEnabled": false,
    "isEnabled": false,
    "annotationsEnabled": false,
    "share": "public"
}
```

Status Codes:

- **200** – Updated

> - **400** – Errors (invalid json, missing or invalid fields, etc)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **400** – Errors (such as invalid json, missing or invalid fields)
```
